PEAR 1 "5 Nov 2017" "PEAR 0.9.11" "PEAR manual"

PEAR - Paired-end reads merger

IOPTIONS

DESCRIPTION: PEAR is a paired-end reads merger for the Illumina platform.

PEAR evaluates all possible paired-end read overlaps and does
not require the target fragment size as input. It also implements
a statistical test for minimizing false-positive results. The highly optimized
and parallelized implementation allows for merging millions of paired-end reads
within a few minutes on a standard desktop computer.

Using PEAR is very easy. Invoke it from the prompt of your command interpreter as follows:

shell> pear -f forward-fastq -r reverse-fastq -o ouput

-f, -forward-fastq=FILENAME
Forward paired-end FASTQ file

-r, -reverse-fastq=FILENAME
Reverse paired-end FASTQ file

-o, -output=FILENAME
Output filename

-p, -value=PVALUE
Specify the value PVALUE as the p-value for the statistical test. If the computer
p-value of a possible merging exceeds the specified p-value then the paired-end read will
not be merged. Valid options are: 0.0001, 0.001, 0.01, 0.05 and 1.0. Setting 1.0 disables the test. (default: 0.01)

-v, -min-overlap=VALUE
Set VALUE as the minimum overlap size. The minimum overlap may be set to 1 when
the statistical test is used. However, further restricting the minimum overlap size to a 
proper value may reduce false-positive assemblies. (default: 10)

-m, -max-assembly-length=VALUE
Set VALUE as the maximum possible length of the assembled sequences. Setting this
value to 0 disables the restriction and assembled sequences may be arbitrarily long (default: 0)

-n, -min-assembly-length=VALUE
Set VALUE as the minimum possible length of the assembled sequences. Setting this
value to 0 disables the restriction and assembled sequences may be arbitrarily long (default: 0)

-t, -min-trim-length=VALUE
Sets the minimum length of reads after trimming the low quality part (see option -q) to VALUE.
(default: 1)

-q, -quality-threshold=VALUE
Sets the quality score threshold for trimming the low quality part of a read to VALUE. If the quality scores
of two consecutive bases are strictly less than the specified threshold, the rest of the read will
be trimmed. (default: 0)

-u, -max-uncalled-base=VALUE
Sets the maximal proportion of uncalled bases in a read to VALUE. Setting this value to
0 will cause PEAR to discard all reads that contain uncalled bases. The other extreme
setting is 1 which causes PEAR to process all reads independent on the  number of
uncalled bases. (default: 1)

-g, -test-method=TYPE
Specifies the type of statistical test. Two options are available, 1 and 2. (default: 1)

1: Given the minimum allowed overlap, test using the highest OES. Note that due to its
discrete nature, this test usually yields a lower p-value for the assembled read than the cut-off (specified by -p).
For example, setting the cut-off to 0.05 using this test, the assembled reads might have an actual p-value
of 0.02

2: Use the acceptance probability (m.a.p). This test method computes the same probability as test method 1R. However,
it assumes that the minimal overlap is the observed overlap with the highest OES, instead of the one
specified by -v. Therefore, this is not a valid statistical test and the 'p-value' is in fact the 
maximal probability for accepting the assembly. Nevertheless, in practice, test 2 can correctly assemble 
more reads with only slightly higher false-positive rate when the actual overlap sizes are relatively small.

-e, -empirical-freqs
Disable empirical base frequencies. (default: use empirical base frequencies)

-s, -score-method=METHOD
Specify the scoring method. Three options are available, 1, 2 and 3. (default: 2)

1: OES with +1 for match and -1 for mismatch

2: Assembly score (AS). Use +1 for match and -1 for mismatch multiplied by base quality scores

3: Ignore quality scores and use +1 for a match and -1 for a mismatch

-b, -phred-base=VALUE
Sets the base PHRED quality score to VALUE. (default: 33)

-y, -memory=SIZE
Specifies the amount of memory to be used. The number may be followed by one of the letters K, M, or G
denoting Kilobytes, Megabytes and Gigabytes, respectively. Bytes are assumed in case no letter is specified. (default: 200M)

-j, -threads=THREADS
Use THREADS number of threads

-c, -cap=VALUE
Specify the upper bound for the resulting quality score. If set to zero, capping is disabled. (default: 40)

-z, -nbase
When merging a base-pair that consists of two non equal bases out of which none is degenerate, set the merged base to N, with the highest quality score of the two bases.

-k, -keep-original
Do not reverse and complement the reverse reads when writing the unassembled and discarded reads output.

-i, -stitch
Stitch (concatenate) reads by reverse-complementing the reverse read and appending it to the forward read, without checking for an overlap.

-h, -help
This help screen

Tomas Flouri <Tomas.Flouri@h-its.org>

Jiajie Zhang <Jiajie.Zhang@h-its.org>

Kassian Kobert <Kassian.Kobert@h-its.org>

Alexandros Stamatakis <Alexandros.Stamatakis@h-its.org>

Report PEAR bugs to pear-users@googlegroups.com

For more information, please refer to the PEAR, which is available online at http://www.exelixis-lab.org/web/software/pear
